# Overview
This is really what first drew me into sports analytics. I've done March Madness brackets for as long as I can remember, with varying levels of success. On the stats side, my dad coached with Danny Miles at Oregon Institute of Technology for a few years and Danny has a Value Point (VP) system that describes a player's performance in a game, season, or career, using a variety of individual metrics, many of which show up in box scores, but incorporating a few, such as charges that don't. This was his own view of how a player could contribute to a team's success and while it didn't directly lead to my own algorithms, I'm sure some of the emphasized features on that team do influence what I value.<br /><br />
Much of the work I did with this was before I had any programming knowledge, so involved copying and pasting team stats each March after Selection Sunday but before games began on Thursday (I gave myself the buffer of the First Four). These Excel workbooks are still included for the years that I could find, but the process has improved significantly with my knowledge of Pandas and Python (2023 will be the first year of incorporating R). There are macros included for reformatting and calculations in some of the more recent years, but this still doesn't compare to the simplicity that exists with Pandas data manipulation or R data exploration.<br /><br />
Algorithms are sorted by the year in which March Madness took place, rather than the year the season started. This makes more sense for my organization because there is very little analysis that takes places throughout the season; it is almost entirely in the couple of days following Selection Sunday and in the months after the tournament ends, with review of the code and why it was successful or not (I will be incorporating this into Markdown files as well).